// CRYPTO OVERVIEW //

The purpose of this file will be to introduce the basic components of cryptocurrency. 
By first gaining an appreciation for the technology, studying the movements of the prices will be more interesting.

*Cracks knuckles to begin typing

I believe that two factors led to the birth of cryptocurrency: The Internet and 2008.

In the early 90s, the Internt surged in popularity. This was a period known as the "Dot com" era as anyone with
a website could raise ungodly sums of money as they spoke of grand visions of a digital society where all problems
could be solved online. Sound like an emerging technology today? Anyway, in addition to the websites themselves,
entrepreneuers were excited about building a payment system that was native to the Internet. Paypal emerged and was great, 
but it still has to go through traditional financial intermediaries. True technologists wanted something that was created, 
owned, transferred, and stored completely online.

They wanted digital money.

The problem that these folks kept running into is known as the "double-spending" problem. Imagine three people,
Alice, Bob, and Carl. If Alice has 5 digital dollars, it was seemingly impossible to stop Alice from making a copy of
her digital money and sending 5 to Bob and 5 to Carl. It was the problem any Internet site was running into with
illegal file sharing. This double-spending problem was frustrating, so many people gave up on the idea of digital money,
but others continued to think about the issue.

Flash forward to 2008.

The world economy was crumbling in large part from the poor decisions made by leaders of global financial
institutions, especially big Wall Street banks. Even if your money was not directly invested with one of these
banks or its affiliates, countless people were affected by unemployment, falling stock prices, and depreciating home values. 
The U.S. government and others deemed the big financial institutions as central to our economy, and did everything in their 
power to save them. In other words, the government decided that these institutions were "Too Big To Fail". 

There are two points of view that have emerged since the crisis.
(1) The government was wise to step in and apply stimulus as it prevented even further damage.
(2) The government propped up businesses that will not learn from their mistakes, and are raising taxes
and national debt to save these banks. In 2018, the economy looks strong, but fears of the debt, trade wars,
and other macroeconomic concerns remain. The Federal Reserve has slowly raised rates to 1.5% since it slashed them from 4% to 0%
back in 2008-2010, but if the economy crashes in the next couple of years, what other tools are available? Cutting
rates from where they are to 0% might not be enough. There were a number of people that were dissatisfied with what Wall Street 
created and how the Federal Reserve responded by effectively creating a national debt through their quantitative easing program.
Some people were EXTREMELY frustrated with how the Fed handled this process, and became paranoid that the Fed will print
too much money and erode the value of the U.S. Dollar. The distrust of centralized financial institutions was growing.

Flash forward to January 2009.

A nine-page white paper is published online titled "Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System". The author,
operating under the pseudonym "Satoshi Nakamoto", announced that he had created "a new electronic cash system that
uses a peer-to-peer network to prevent double-spending. It's completely decentralized with no server or central authority".

It seemed almost too good to be true.

For decades technologists grappled with the double-spending problem preventing the adoption of digital cash. Meanwhile,
others were increasingly aware of the risks of centralized financial institutions. Satoshi addressed both of their issues
in just nine pages.

So what did Satoshi actually create?

He created two things: (1) A currency native to the Internet that had solved the double-spending problem. This invention
was called "cryptocurrency". (2) Second, he created a decentralized system to govern the currency rather than trusting
one central group to watch over the money supply (e.g. Federal Reserve). This investion was called the "Blockchain".

In otherwords a cryptocurrency is a digital money that solved the double-spending problem using the Blockchain rather than a
central intermediary. In the past, to send money over the Internt, you had a middleman like Venmo that ensured Alice had
enough money to pay Bob, and once Alice sent $5, to deduct $5 from Alice's account and add $5 to Bob's. You have to trust
that Venmo will act as a neutral third-party. However, the blockchain removes the need for trust. 

Let's look at the same Alice-Bob transaction except using the blockchain rather than Venmo.

The blockchain is a distributed ledger of transactions that everyone can see. It is basically like Google Sheets.
In the original block, Alice has $5 and Bob has $0. Alice sends Bob $5. A few steps happen. The blockchain validators,
called "miners", check to see if Alice has $5 in her account. She does. Then they record a decrease of $5 for Alice and
an increase for Bob. Thousands of miners now have a record of Alice sending the money and her new balance is $0. Thinking
back to the earlier example, what if Alice tried to send $5 to Carl? Well, she would try, but the miners would look at the
history of the blockchain and see that Alice has $0 so the transaction would fail. What if Alice her malicious? What if in 
the original transaction she had paid some miners to keep her balance at $5 so she could also double-spend and pay Carl?
Well, when miners have different opinions on what the balances should be, it is put to a vote. Alice would need 51% of the 
miners to say that she still has $5. This is virtually impossible to do. Alice would have to convince 51% of the thousands
of miners to act dishonestly which is very impractical and makes sufficiently decentralized blockchains very resistant to 
51% attacks. This agreement by miners on Alice's true balance is what is meant by decentralized consensus.

That is the beauty of cryptocurrency and the blockchain. It uses a peer-to-peer network to prevent double-spending, and
it's completely decentralized with no server or central authority.




This document could proceed endlessly, but I think that it is important to leave more of the story up for discovery.
It is time to go into the world and learn more about this emerging field and make sense of the chaos through careful
analysis. 

In a paraphrase of Elon Musk, "At first they'll say it's impossible, then they'll say it's inevitable"

