// CRYPTO OVERVIEW //

The purpose of this file will be to introduce the basic components of cryptocurrency. 
By first gaining an appreciation for the technology, studying the movements of the prices will be more interesting.

*Cracks knuckles to begin typing

I believe that two factors allowed the stars to align and for cryptocurrency to be born: The Internet and 2008.

In the early 90s, the Internt surged in popularity. This was a period known as the "Dot com" era as anyone with
a website could raise ungodly sums of money as they spoke of grand visions of a digital society where all problems
could be solved online. Sound like any other emerging technology today? Anyway, in addition to the websites themselves,
entrepreneuers were excited about building a payment system that was native to the Internet. Some easy way to send
money over the Internt. Paypal emerged and was great, but it still has to go through traditional financial intermediaries.
True technologists wanted something that was created, owned, transferred, and stored completely online.

They wanted digital money.

The problem that these folks kept running into is what is known as the "double-spending" problem. Imagine three people,
Alice, Bob, and Carl. If Alice has 5 digital dollars, it was seemingly impossible to stop Alice from making a copy of
her digital money and sending 5 to Bob and 5 to Carl. It was the problem any Internet site was running into with
illegal file sharing. This double-spending problem was frustrating and many people moved on from the idea of digital money.

Flash forward.

It's 2008. The world economy was crumbling in large part from the poor decisions made by leaders of global financial
institutions, especially big Wall Street banks. Even if your money was not directly invested with one of these
banks or its affiliates, billions of people were affected in some way by unemployment, falling stock prices,
or depreciating home values. The U.S. government and others deemed the big financial institutions as central to 
our economy, and did everything in their power to save them. In other words, the government decided that these
institutions were "Too Big To Fail". There are two points of view that have emerged since the crisis.
(1) The government was wise to step in and apply the stimulus that they did as it prevented even further damage.
(2) The government is propping up businesses that will not learn from their mistakes, and are raising taxes
and national debt to save these banks. In 2018, the economy looks strong, but fears of the debt, trade wars,
and other macroeconomic concerns remain. The Federal Reserve has slowly raised rates to 1.5% since it slashed them from 4% to 0%
back in 2008-2010, but if the economy crashes in the next couple of years, what other tools are available? Cutting
rates from where they are to 0% might not be enough. There were a number of people that were dissatisfied with what Wall Street 
created and how the Federal Reserve responded by effectively creating a national debt through their quantitative easing program.

Enter Bitcoin.


